The next thing we need to do is get
our page ready for tablet and for
mobile dimensions, because,
as you know, this site looks absolutely
fantastic when we're looking at
it at large dimensions here.
Hey, totally awesome.
But as we make this smaller, our pictures
get smaller, things get smushed together,
and it's just not nearly
as pretty as it used to be.
So we need to modify our display
with some media queries.
So let's go ahead and add those now.
And you can continue to
follow along with me,
working with the same CodePen
that you have been working on.
Or if you take a look inside
of the website for the class,
you can find a second CodePen.
Beginning CodePen here for your tablet and
mobile layouts here and an ending
CodePen for that if you've managed it,
if you've gotten lost along the way.
Okay, so what we're going to do now
is we're gonna need to put in some
more media queries that are going
to make these items start to Stack.
So what I'm going to do
here is I'm going to
add an apt media query
inside of my we're just
continuing on to add to
the layer of projects.
And for my media query,
I'm going to say max-width,
992 pixels, which was determined by,
as you know,
just scrubbing back and
forth here and saying, well,
where does it stop looking quite so
good and picking a spot?
So I happened to pick 992 pixels,
because that's what worked for me.
And so as you and right now,
I'm looking at it around 936,
so you see that my words here for
advanced CSS layouts have started
to sort of scroll off the picture.
It's just not looking as
good as it did before.
So this is how I chose this.
And so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go to top grid, okay?
Which remember top grid we
had worked with before, and
we had told it to make us two columns.
One is two fractions wide,
and one is one fraction wide.
Well, what I'm gonna do with top grid now
is I'm just going to say display block.
In other words,
I don't want any grid at all,
just stack everybody on top of each other.
There they are, make sense?
Does it like the easiest
solution that's here at all?
But when you do this of course,
there is no space in between
these particular items.
So you are also going to
need to add some space.
So for top grid figure, so
at the bottom of each of these figures,
we can say margin hyphen bottom,
maybe something like 4rem.
You could go with 2rem,
too, that would be fine.
But for whatever reason,
I thought 4rem was a nice number, okay?
So pretty simple there they are all
stacked on top of each other,
how cool is that?
All right, nice and straightforward.
Now, the bottom grid is going
to be interesting [LAUGH].
So, what we have here with
the bottom grid, remember,
on the desktop layout to the desktop
layout, while the desktop layout,
we just have our five icons all
next to each other straightforward.
But when we get to our tablet layout,
our designer friend said,
hey, why don't you do this?
[LAUGH] To what you said, cool.
[LAUGH] Okay, well, here's the thing.
With grid, this is not gonna be possible.
Can anybody guess why with a name like
grid, why this might not be possible,
>> Because the second row is overlapping?
>> Correct, cuz everything
shifted over in the middle here.
If it's a grid, it's a grid.
They should be on top of each other,
right, and all lined up.
But this is the middle of these images is
lined up with the gap on the top row here,
okay?
The only way to achieve a layout
like this is with Flexbox, okay?
Flexbox can do this, grid cannot.
So that is what we're going to
do here is change bottom grid to
display is Flexbox instead.
So we'll say bottom grid,
Display flex, which is how, fortunately,
the markup is exactly the same
with parents and children.
We just now need to change this
to display as Flexibox and
flex-flow row wrap, And
it would take a quick peek
at how this is going here.
Not very well so far, okay?
Then we're going to say
justify-content center,
and we're gonna say align content center,
and we're gonna give it a gap.
And we're gonna give our gap two numbers,
6rem and 2rem.
6rem will be in the row in between.
So we'll have a bigger gap in between
the row of three and the row of two.
And the 2rem will be the gap
in between each of the images.
Now, if you take a look at this,
it's still gonna look kind of awful,
at least they're centered.
But it's really not very pretty yet, okay?
And the reason why is, we have told
Flexbox to put these all together.
But we haven't told the Flexbox
how wide to make these.
Remember, we talked about the difference
between width and flex-basis.
So what I need to do now
is tell bottom grid,
And we can just say the children
of bottom grid, all of them.
We want them to have a flex-basis of 30%.
So 30%, obviously,
like times three, is 90%.
So that gives us a little bit of free
space that will help, set up our gap,
right?
So there we go, boom,
it just magically appears.
As soon as you set up that
flex-basis to be 30%,
they just appear in the right
configuration, how cool is that?
Okay, so then, the one thing that's
missing now is if you notice that bootcamp
icon there, It's a little bit shorter
than the other icons that are around it.
And remember,
we applied a little formula to get all
of our images to be the same size.
And then applied to our top grid, but
it's not applying to our bottom grid.
So let's apply that to our bottom grid.
So we're gonna say bottom grid, IMG.
And we're going to do this again,
object-fit,
cover, width, 100%, and height,
100%, Okay,
And then, they'll all be nice and
pretty in the same kind of dimensions,
Isn't that amazing, So
it's gonna go from that perfect, lovely,
five-across, all same-size image.
And then, it's gonna go to the three and
the two and it looks good, okay?
Questions on that so
far, I'm sorry, so if I-
>> We have three and two, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Keep moving smaller you have two and
three.
>> Yeah, well, because I set
my flex-basis to 30% here, so
the size of each of these children
is now 30%, you won't actually,
I mean, at some point, they do,
in fact, wrap out like this, okay?
Which is also,
still looks very attractive.
And as we get smaller,
eventually [LAUGH], but
they're 30% still, and
that's why they're so tiny here.
So, we're now definitely beyond the point
where we need to make some modifications
with another media query.
Make sense, yeah, okay.
And so my next media query is at 667
pixels, and 667 pixels is,
667, right around in here.
So it actually is going
to go to this 2 across,
2 rows of 2 plus the 1,
before we go to our final media query.
I'm actually fine with that, as I said,
I think it still looks fine, and
that's ultimately what
we are concerned about.
If that bothers you, you could make this
go stack on top of each other sooner.
So it's a design decision.
All right, so with our media queries here,
we have our first media query.
We're gonna add another
media query @media, and
this will be max-width, 667 pixels,
So here, sorry, bottom grid
will have a gap of 2rem.
So that's the first thing
that we need to do.
Make sure that our gap
is got kinda big there.
Remember, we had, I think it was
like a 6rem gap in the row, and
they were kinda spread
out all over the page.
Now, I'm setting the gap to
an even 2rem for all of those.
And then for bottom grid a,
in other words, the links,
right now those are set to 30% each, okay?
Which is why they're still
in this configuration.
I'm now gonna set my flex-basis to 80%.
So in other words, make take over
most of that particular area and
fill it with the picture,
so there it is, okay?
And obviously, as we make it smaller,
it continues to look better.
Now, let's take a look
at the top grid here,
Let's see, yeah,
because I did the top grid on tablet, but
I did not do the top grid on mobile.
So a few modifications, so
we wanna make on the top grid on mobile.
And so what we're going to do is,
4 667 pixels here.
For top grid figure,
let's put a margin-bottom of 2rem, okay?
So in other words, we're just continuing
to tighten a little bit of space here.
It was larger,
I think it was 4rem at tablet, so
we're just tightening this up a little bit
here and particularly to match the images
that are going to come after,
The other thing is projects
that I am proud of gets a little bit big
at this particular screen dimension.
So I am going to add to
this a section-projects h2,
and I'm gonna change my font-size to
var h5, And
these figure captions, once again, the CSS
projects text and advanced CSS layouts,
these titles, get a little bit big,
so we may wanna reduce those as well.
Figcaption h3, font-size,
var base-size.
So let's make them a little bit smaller,
And so that's great.
That looks much better now, when we get
down to these mobile dimensions, okay,
So really, when you, as you're working
on tablets and you're working on mobile,
it's really just taking a look at these
pages and looking at them by eye.
Part of the reason that I love working in
CodePen here for this is that I can scrub
this back and forth and know exactly where
in terms of the width of the screen that I
look at got it and I go, that just
doesn't really look good anymore.
What is that particular width of
the viewport at that point in time?
So that's a very convenient way to
work on these particular issues and
then decide where you want
to put your media queries.
One of the things that happens
with a lot of the frameworks is
that those media queries may be preset for
you.
And so you don't have this luxury of
customizing all these particular areas
without writing additional custom code
to go with that particular framework.
So here we are able to customize this and
make it absolutely perfect for
this particular design rather than just
sort of a cookie-cutter solution that may
or may not work with
this particular design,